## Minutes RTRS WG Meeting May 2, 2024

Minutes by Joseph Rickert

### Attendees

* Joseph B Rickert
* David Gohel 
* Adrian Waddell - Genentech

It is apparent from the light attendance at the last few meetings that enthusiasm for the the working group is waning. This is not surprising. The publication of version 1 of *Tables in Clinical Trials with R* was a significant accomplishment which involved the sustained commitment of several contributors for more than three years. This kind of sustained effort is difficult to maintain.

Because attrition and job changes, the working group no longer enjoys the participation of enough members working directly in clinical environments. The successful continuation of the group will require recruiting new members.

There is general agreement that a second version of the document would address the topics of table value formatting and listings. 

There is also a recognition that the whole issue of the workflows required to produce tables in an R environment is largely un-addressed and presents several challenges. Table productions for a clinical trial submission spans several departments including Biostatistics, Safety, and Medical Writing. Every pharma has their own workflows and protocols and agreement on a common standard would require collaboration from a large number of organizations.

In the upcoming June meeting we will discuss the future of the working group. In preparation for this meeting Adrian has agreed to develop a short statement of what an effort to investigate Table related workflows would involve.

The next meeting of the working group will be held at 9AM Pacific Time on Thursday June 6, 2024.


