## Minutes RTRS WG Meeting March 7, 2024

Minutes by Joseph Rickert

### Attendees

-   Gabe Becker
-   Rich Ionne - Posit
-   Joseph B Rickert - ProCogia
-   Jeff Thompson - Arcus
-   Dandi Zheng - Arcus

## R/Medicine Conference

-   There was some discussion as to whether the WG should submit a talk or a workshop to R/Medicine virtual conference which will be held from June 10 to 14th.
-   The group agreed that a workshop would be easier to do if multiple authors of the table packages in the ebook participated.
-   Gabe offered to do a talk.
-   JBR will see if other group members are interested in a workshop.

The remainder of the meeting was spent discussing topics that should be included in the [new topics issue (#139)](https://github.com/RConsortium/rtrs-wg/issues/139) under the Formatting & Rendering and Listings headings.

These sections now read as follows

3.  Formatting & Rendering
  -   cell format
  -   formatting real numbers and count values (precision, rounding, decoration)
  -   formatting multi-value cells (formatting individual values, arrangement/decoration of values)
  -   formatting percentage values
  -   display of missing values (context dependent)
  -   custom/conditional display of values depending on context (e.g., p values)
  -   multi-cell formatting, where formatting must consider adjacent cells (e.g., decimal alignment)
  -   precision depending on measurement (dynamic use of significant digits or decimal places).
  -   (tables, titles and footnotes) & Rendering (html, pdf, txt, rtf, xml, markdown & rmarkdown, word, power point, tgen etc.)
  -   including `pharmaRTF`
  -   pagination
  -   titles, footnotes, cell references

4.  Listings

  -   key value (suppress printing down, usually left-most grouping/row labels)
  -   header/footer considerations
  -   options for footer placement (can be highly variable depending on chosen style)
  
  
**Actions:**
Gabe will complete his task on listings and fix the workflow for the dev branch of the ebook.

The next meeting will be held at 9AM PST on Thursday April 4, 2024.
