---
title: "Submissions_minutes_2021-12-03"
author: "Joseph Rickert"
date: "12/3/2021"
output: html_document
---

## Attendees:
* Phil Boswher - RStudio
* Hye Soo Cho - FDA
* Heidi Curinckx - Johnson & Johnson
* Miriam Fossati - Merck
* Steven Hassendinckx
* Ellis Hughes
* Maria Matilde Kam - FDA
* Ning Leng - Genentech
* Emily Nguyen - FDA
* Joseph Rickert - R Consortium
* Paul Schuette - FDA
* Adrian Waddell - Roche
* Nan Xiao - Merck
* Jiang Xu - FDA
* Hong Yan - Regeneron
* Renping Zhang - FDA
* Yilong Zhang - Merck
* Jizu Zhi - FDA

## Minutes of 2021-12-03 Meeting prepared by Joseph Rickert

The meeting was recorded and the video is available [here](https://rstudio.zoom.us/rec/share/TPhUmx-9fsnaF8ZWkGqSXGgTqIZAuDy8Fvli182eRysycU5WPOse7kOzagdRU7Lh.acdswWFSSBr7m0K0) Passcode: 0tA$D+ev

**JR** Opend the meeting with the agenda to discuss the recent pilot sumbission through the FDA gateway and then discuss a request to have interested companies describe what they are currently doing with respect to FDA submissions in R.

**YZ** reported that the submission went through the gateway, thanked all who participated and was looking forward to receiving feedpack from the FDA.

**JR** reported that there were still issues with employees from different companies usint the RC portal. The current solution is to have people accessing the gateway on behalf of the RC use an R Consortium email address. **JR** wants to make sure that this is fine with the FDA.

At **6:37** into the video **PS** begins providing FDA feedback on the submission.

The initial findings were: 

* The submission was partially successful
* The were no problems with the .R extensions
* The FDA was unable to find the `Pilot1wrappers` package. However, the * * FDA analyst was able to generate tables
* The FDA thinks there may have been a switch in the high bit vs. bit settings and asked the WG to check this.
* The FDA analyst was able to retrive the `pilot1wrappers` package from the Submission WG website, download the coad and verify the results
* The FDA noted that including a dependency chart showing the 2nd and 3rd order dependdencies would be very helpful.
If this were and actual submission, at least one IR request would have been generated.

On behalf of the WG, **JR** thanked the FDA team for making extra effort to retrieve the wrapper package and run the code.

In the subsequent discussion it was determined that the FDA analysts overlooked the instructions, burried in the ADRG, to unpack the `pilot1wrappers` from the file r0plg.txt. Once this was clarified **HC**, the FDA analyst, was able to execute the command and unpack the `pilot1wrappers` package. **HY** noted that in her experience, submissions with R code tend to be *ad hoc*, and that it is common to include a README file. The WG took note and agreed that it would be a good idea to include a `README` file that highlights the key steps, maybe by referening the ADRG.

Next, followed a discussion about the requested dependency chart tree diagram. **PS** noted that the importance of dependencies depends on the setting. When running from a standard machine, FDA analysts are able to pull packages from the internet. However, when running from one of their scientific enclaves high performance computing environments they must port in the packages. To illustrate the problem with dependencies *HC* showed (See screen capture) the error messages generated by calling R packages previously installed on her machine, but which did not have the dependencies installed that are required to run the submission code. 


The next meeting is set for 9:00 AM Pacific Time on Friday, January 7, 2022.