## Minutes RTRS WG - 2022-07-07

The minutes were compiled by Joseph Rickert.

### Attendees
* Gabriel Becker
* Kevin Bolger - Procogia
* Bob Engle - Biogen
* David Gohel - Ardata
* Steven Hasendonckx J&J
* James Kim - Pfizer
* Tad Lewandowski - Roche
* Joseph Rickert - RStudio
* Tom Tensfeldt - Pfizer
* Adrian Waddell - Roche

The meeting was recorded and the [video](https://rstudio.zoom.us/rec/share/IN7oHXfbXf2Iu-JKZ1S9m9LB3s4Qk6W31HQ6rMxm0wbrhABaFhAd2AvTmM47anGq.VFfqeNBtRdRK6kjn) with Passcode: #$R4uUVj

The meeting began with Adrian presenting the new eBook which he has set up in [tables-book](https://github.com/RConsortium/rtrs-wg/tree/main/tables-book) directory on the RTRS GitHub Repository. This eBook is intended to become the foundation for all documentation to be produced by the working group. It will be the group's major work product and the source for future documents. 

The eBook is implemented as a standard bookdown project. To contribute the eBook: clone the repo. Open it as an RStudio project, navigate to the index.Rmd file which is the front page for the document. Then open the book with the `bookdown::serve_book()`. Look at line 102 of the index.Rmd to see what packages need to be installed.

Note that the data used to build the tables for the book is accessible from the website: https://github.com/insightsengineering.

**Action Items**

* Package authors who are members of the working group should begin adding example tables to the eBook.

* We need a volunteer to begin writing a style guide 

* Gabe Becker volunteered to give a short talk about the eBook at the R / Medicine conference if we can get a slot. 

* Joseph Rickert will speak to the R / Medicine program committee.

* Gabe will draft the paragraph describing the recent working group activities for the R Consortium Newsletter.


The next meeting of the RTRS working group will be on Thursday, August 4th. 

