## Minutes RTRS WG - 2022-06-02

The minutes were compiled by Joseph Rickert.

### Attendees
* Gabriel Becker
* Phil Bowsher - Rstudio
* David Gohel - Ardata
* Rich Iannone - RStudio
* Alexandra Lauer - Merck
* Tad Lewandowski - Roche
* Joseph Rickert - RStudio
* Tom Tensfeldt - Pfizer
* Adrian Waddell - Roche

The meeting was recorded and the [video](https://rstudio.zoom.us/rec/share/GNqpBEQRGVUnZ8VbjGzVlnA-Y55vFxqdxbmoLw_Uo5vfh9QZEg2zpZM2GEfgt-Uy.b8ER5HV98BMv9JV2) is available with Passcode: 0e7H.Y4C

The discussion began by considering whether it would be worthwhile to set an intermediate goal and publish a portion of the work that has been done so far. In particular, could we publish the archetype tables that we have identified? These would include Adverse events, Model Summary, Demographics, Variable Summary, and Reference Summary tables.

Gabe pointed that there are table archetypes and structural table features, and noted that he prefers starting with the features because the archetype tables are then just applications of the features. The group went on to discuss the merits of each approach and spent time considering the characterization of tables Gabe presented in his R Adoption Series presentation. The video is available on YouTube [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1i6vOId2h4A). Gabe's slide categorizing 196 production tables is presented at **12:06** into the R Adoption Webinar video. The discussion of the categorization happens at about **17:00** into the video of the meeting.

Note: Gabe left the meeting at approximately **18:00** into the video.

The discussion then turned to starting a bookdown document that would have a chapter for each table archetype and a chapter for each table R package. The group decided to write the bookdown document and spent the remainder of the meeting revising the [Kanban Board](https://github.com/RConsortium/rtrs-wg/projects/1) to reflect this new task. Some previously existing tasks were affected. Several were put on hold, eliminated or consolidated into the new set of tasks. 

Once we have a draft bookdown document we can blog about it and ask the FDA members of the working group to comment.

The next meeting of the group will be held at 9:00AM Pacific Time on Thursday, July 7, 2022.

