## Minutes RTRS WG - 2022-08-04

The minutes were compiled by Joseph Rickert.

### Attendees
* Gabriel Becker
* Phil Bowsher - Rstudio
* Rich Iannone - RStudio
* James Kim - Pfizer
* Alexandra Lauer - Merck
* Joseph Rickert - RStudio
* Tom Tensfeldt - Pfizer
* Adrian Waddell - Roche

The meeting was recorded and the [video](https://rstudio.zoom.us/rec/share/w61DRgCNITSHFSjv8MOpD2AFthmUFC-exURm3N_6NR4_j4zQa_LIGkMxn2gb7JGN.OTqQGFqA5U0U16fo) is available with passcode: FpG7rR+%

GB began by noted that he recently added a pure `rtables` version of the demographic table and AW is stated that he is debugging the automation of the ebook.

JBR asked if we need to revise the statement of the scope of work for the group. In the past, we have talked about discovering  table archetypes, developing examples of these archetypes using several different packages, and also developing workflows to produce tables in documents. 

During the discussion that followed, those present affirmed that all of this is within the charter of the group, but that work on developing tables at scale depends on completing the work to understand the archetypes and develop sample code.

The group noted that there are no standards for producing tables in production. 

The group discussed how to motivate all of the authors from relevant table packages to contribute code to build the sample tables. The group agreed that developing detailed examples using one or two packages would make it easier for package authors to replicate them using their packages.

At **13:00** minutes into the video, the group begins working in the ebook, which is contained in the [tables-book](https://github.com/RConsortium/rtrs-wg/tree/main/tables-book) directory on the GitHub repo.

At **27:20** minutes into the video, the group begins revising the project [Kanban Board](https://github.com/RConsortium/rtrs-wg/projects/1)

Note that there is now a new column labeled **ToDo-Next Meeting** which contains smaller concrete tasks that reflect the work the group would like to accomplish for the next meeting.

The next RTRS WG meeting will be at 9AM Pacific Time on Thursday, September 1, 2022.
