## Minutes RTRS WG - 2023-03-02

The minutes were compiled by Joseph Rickert.

### Attendees
* Luai Alzoubi - Pfizer
* Gabriel Becker
* David Gohel -  Ardata
* Rich Iannone
* James Kim - Pfizer
* Alexandra Lauer - Merck
* Duncan Murdoch
* Joseph B Rickert - Posit
* Sheng-Wei Wang - J&J

Gabe Becker commented extensively on the Roche [TLG](https://insightsengineering.github.io/tlg-catalog/) catalog which has been released to open source under the business friendly Apache 2.0 license. TLG contains a large number of tables, including laboratory, safety and PK tables, that can be used as starting point for our ebook.The catalog also contains material on graphics and listings. The underlying software depends on the `TERN` package and other [NEST Tools](https://github.com/insightsengineering).

The WG spent some time exploring the catalog of tables and noticed a number of idiosyncrasies, for example that the PK PT02 table uses scientific notation as the standard.

Gabe also mentioned that a new version of [`rtables`](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=rtables) will be submitted to CRAN very soon.

Rich Iannone asked about the [`formatters`](https://cran.r-project.org/package=formatters package.) Gabe explained that `formatters` separates formatting from rendering by defining and intermediate table representation that other packages can use. `rtables` pagination capabilities depend on the intermediate representation as does a new package being written for listings. `formatters` was developed for table developers and is not likely to be used by end users.

There was a short discussion about what sort of additional people we would like to attract to the RTRS WG.Gabe noted that RTRS is primarily populated by table developers, and that we should seek to attract people who make decisions about what the tables should look like. Alex Lauer noted that just within Roche there are multiple groups whose opinions we should seek.

**Action:** JBR will contact Paul Schuette about FDA employees who may be interested.

James Kim suggested we look at the the FDA's [STANDARD SAFETY
TABLES AND FIGURES: INTEGRATED GUIDE](https://www.regulations.gov/document/FDA-2022-N-1961-0046) (Scroll to the bottom of the link and click the download button)

Duncan Murdoch summarized reported on recent commits to the ebook and noted that the installation in Chapter 1 is different from the code used in the GitHub Actions.

**Action:** David Gohel replied that sorting this out is on his list tasks to do.

The next meeting of the working group will be on Thursday, April 6, 2023 at 9AM PST.
